Update internal instructions with new reference file names (#555)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-nf: internal-instructions.md

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

1. `ref-metadata.tsv`: Each row of this TSV file corresponds to a reference that is available for mapping with `scpca-nf`.
   The columns included specify the `organism` (e.g., `Homo_sapiens`), `assembly`(e.g.,`GRCh38`), and `version`(e.g., `104`) of the `fasta` obtained from [Ensembl](https://www.ensembl.org/index.html) that was used to build the reference files.
   This file is used as input to the `build-index.nf` workflow, which will create all required index files for `scpca-nf` for the listed organisms in the metadata file, provided the `fasta` and `gtf` files are stored in the proper location on S3.
   See [instructions for adding additional organisms](#adding-additional-organisms) for more details.

2. `scpca-refs.json`: Each entry of this file contains a supported reference for mapping with `scpca-nf` and the name used to refer to that supported reference, e.g., `Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.104`.
   For each supported reference, a list of all the reference files that are needed to run `scpca-nf` will be included.
   This file is required as input to `scpca-nf`.

> 3. `celltype-reference-metadata.tsv`: Each row of this TSV file corresponds to a supported cell type reference available for cell type annotation.

Author: noting I bullet-ified this text

> Adding additional organisms is handled, in part, by the `build-celltype-ref.nf` workflow.

Author: just noticing this sentence hanging out... should it be here still?

    - `<celltype_ref_name>` represents the reference dataset name.
      For use with `SingleR`, this should be taken directly from a `celldex` dataset.
      For `CellAssign`, names are established by the Data Lab as `<tissue/organ>-compartment` to represent a set of markers for a given tissue/organ.
    - `<celltype_ref_source>` represents the reference dataset source. Currently only `celldex` and `PanglaoDB` are supported for `SingleR` and `CellAssign`, respectively.
    - `<celltype_method>` represents which annotation method to use with the specified reference, either `SingleR` or `CellAssign`.
    - `organs` indicates which organs to be included in creation of references with `PanglaoDB` as the `celltype_ref_source`.
       This must be a comma separated list of all organs to include.

2. Generate the new cell type reference using `nextflow run build-celltype-ref.nf -profile ccdl,batch` from the root directory of this repository.
3. Ensure that the new reference files are public and in the correct location on S3.

> `SingleR` reference files, which are the full reference datasets from the `celldex` package, should be in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_references` and named as `<celltype_ref_name>_<celltype_ref_source>_<version>.rds`.

Reviewer: Now that you are not fighting with `prettier`, do you want to make these bulleted lists? I don't care one way or the other, and otherwise things look fine to me!

> Adding additional organisms is handled, in part, by the `build-celltype-ref.nf` workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding additional references to use for cell type annotation is handled by the `build-celltype-ref.nf` workflow.
```
I think it's meant to say this.

Follow the below steps to add support for additional cell type references.
We currently only support `celldex` and `PanglaoDB` for reference sources for `SingleR` and `CellAssign` cell type annotation, respectively.

> 1. Add the `celltype_ref_name`, `celltype_ref_source`, `celltype_method`, and `organs` (if applicable) for the new reference to `celltype-reference-metadata.tsv`.

Reviewer 2: I think I would actually move the bullets below explaining the ref name and source to below this number. That way we know what to actually fill in the table. Then below you only need to mention that the version will get automatically populated based on either the celldex version or the date in the PanglaoDB file.

### Adding additional cell type references

Adding additional references to use for cell type annotation is handled by the `build-celltype-ref.nf` workflow.

Reference files are created and automatically named by the `build-celltype-ref.nf`.
We currently only support `celldex` and `PanglaoDB` for reference sources for `SingleR` and `CellAssign` cell type annotation, respectively.

Follow these steps to add support for additional cell type references.

1. Add the `celltype_ref_name`, `celltype_ref_source`, `celltype_method`, and `organs` (if applicable) for the new reference to [`celltype-reference-metadata.tsv`](references/celltype-reference-metadata.tsv).

>    - `SingleR` reference files, which are the full reference datasets from the `celldex` package, should be in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_references` and named as `<singler_ref_name>_<source>_<version>.rds`.
>      Corresponding "trained" model files for use in the cell type annotation workflow should be stored in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_models`, named as `<singler_ref_name>_<source>_<version>_model.rds`.
>      Note that the workflow parameter `singler_label_name` will determine which `celldex` dataset label is used for annotation; by default, we use `"label.ont"` (ontology labels).
>      - `<singler_ref_name>` represents the reference dataset name, taken directly from a `celldex` dataset.
>      - `<source>` represents the reference dataset source. Currently only `celldex` is supported.
>      - `<version>` represents the source (`celldex`) version, where periods are replaced with dashes (e.g., version `x.y.z` would be represented as `x-y-z`).
>    - `CellAssign` organ-specific reference gene matrices should be stored in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/cellassign_references` and named as `<cellassign_ref_name>_<source>_<date>.tsv`.
>      - `<cellassign_ref_name>` represents the reference dataset name.
>        Names are established by the Data Lab as `<tissue/organ>-compartment` to represent a set of markers for a given tissue/organ.
>        The specific tissues/organs used for each set of markers is described in `celltype-reference-metadata.tsv`.
>      - `<source>` represents the reference dataset source. Currently only `PanglaoDB` is supported.
>      - `<date>` represents the source (`PanglaoDB`) download date in ISO8601 format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - `<celltype_ref_name>` represents the reference dataset name. For use with `SingleR`, this should be taken directly from a `celldex` dataset. For `CellAssign`, names are established by the Data Lab as `<tissue/organ>-compartment` to represent a set of markers for a given tissue/organ. 
     - `<celltype_ref_source>` represents the reference dataset source. Currently only `celldex` and `PanglaoDB` are supported.
   - `<celltype_method>` represents which method to use with the specified reference, either `SingleR` or `CellAssign`. 
   - `organs` indicates which organs to be included in creation of references with `PanglaoDB` as the `celltype_ref_source`. This must be a comma separated list of all organs to include. 
```
This is more what I was thinking.

Author: Ahhhh I see!

2. Generate the new cell type reference using `nextflow run build-celltype-ref.nf -profile ccdl,batch` from the root directory of this repository.

> 3. Ensure that the new reference files are public and in the correct location on S3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Ensure that the new reference files are public and in the correct location on S3.

- `SingleR` reference files, which are the full reference datasets from the `celldex` package, should be in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_references` and named as `<celltype_ref_name>_<celltype_ref_source>_<version>.rds`.
     Corresponding "trained" model files for use in the cell type annotation workflow should be stored in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_models`, named as `<celltype_ref_name>_<celltype_ref_source>_<version>_model.rds`.
     `<version>` represents the source (`celldex`) version, where periods are replaced with dashes (e.g., version `x.y.z` would be represented as `x-y-z`).
     Note that the workflow parameter `singler_label_name` will determine which `celldex` dataset label is used for annotation; by default, we use `"label.ont"` (ontology labels).
   - `CellAssign` organ-specific reference gene matrices should be stored in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/cellassign_references` and named as `<celltype_ref_name>_<celltype_ref_source>_<date>.tsv`.
 `<date>` represents the source (`PanglaoDB`) download date in ISO8601 format.
```
I think the formatting needs to be fixed, but here is where you would actually describe the expected output files and mention that the reference/ version will be included. I think its probably worth noting that the version is automatically identified and is not required as input in the metadata file.

1. Add the `celltype_ref_name`, `celltype_ref_source`, `celltype_method`, and `organs` (if applicable) for the new reference to `celltype-reference-metadata.tsv`.
2. Generate the new cell type references using `nextflow run build-celltype-ref.nf -profile ccdl,batch` from the root directory of this repository.
3. Ensure that the new reference files are public and in the correct location on S3:
    - `SingleR` reference files, which are the full reference datasets from the `celldex` package, should be in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_references` and named as `<singler_ref_name>_<source>_<version>.rds`.
    The file name will be automatically determined by the `build-celltype-ref.nf`:
      - `<singler_ref_name>` represents the reference dataset name.
      - `<source>` represents the reference dataset source. Currently only `celldex` is supported.
      - `<version>` represents the source (`celldex`) version, where periods are replaced with dashes (e.g. version `x.y.z` would be represented as `x-y-z`).

>     - `SingleR` trained model files for the given Nextflow parameter `singler_label_name` should be in `s3://scpca-references/celltype/singler_models` and named as `<singler_ref_name>_<source>_<version>_model.rds`.

Reviewer 2: I'm confused... We don't have a parameter `singler_label_name`, so I'm not entirely sure what you are trying to say here?
